			WORKSHEET-1
			   SQL


Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
 A) Create B) Update
 C) Delete D) ALTER
Answer:- A) Create  & 
	 D) Alter




2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
 A) Update B) Delete
 C) Select D) Drop
Answer:- A) Update
	 B) Delete &
	 C) Select




Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
3. Full form of SQL is:
 A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
 C) Simple Query Language D) None of them
Answer:- B) Structured Query Language.




4. Full form of DDL is:
 A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
 C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.
Answer:- B) Data Definition Language.




5. DML is:
 A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
 C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these
Answer:- A) Data Manipulation Language.




6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
 A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
 C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them
Answer:- C) Create Table A (B int, C float).




7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
 A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
 C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them
Answer:- B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float. 




8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
 A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
 C) Delete D from A D) None of them
Answer:- B) Alter Table A Drop Column D.




9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of
table A created in above questions?
 A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
 C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int
Answer:- D) Alter table A Column D float to int.




10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following
statements we can do it?
 A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
 C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them
Answer:- A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B.




Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.
11. What is data-warehouse?
Answer:- Data-Warehouse(DWH) is a system used for reporting and data analysis, and is considered a core component of business intelligence. DWs are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate sources. They store current and historical data in one single place that are used for creating analytical reports for workers throughout the enterprise.




12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Answer:-  OLAP is an online system that reports to multidimensional analytical queries like financial reporting, forecasting, etc. The basic difference between OLTP and OLAP is that OLTP is an online database modifying system, whereas, OLAP is an online database query answering system.




13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Answer:-  Various characteristics of data warehouse: 
a) Subject-oriented – A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of...
b) Integrated – It is somewhere same as subject orientation which is made in a reliable format. Integration means founding...
c) Time-Variant – In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It...
d) Non-Volatile – As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means that data...
e) Data Loading
f) Data Access.




14. What is Star-Schema??
Answer:- Star-Schema is the simplest style of data mart schema and is the approach most widely used to develop data warehouses and dimensional data marts. The star schema consists of one or more fact tables referencing any number of dimension tables. The star schema is an important special case of the snowflake schema, and is more effective for handling simpler queries.




15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer:- SETL (SET Language) is a very high-level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets. It was originally developed by (Jack) Jacob T. Schwartz at the New York University (NYU) Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences in the late 1960s.SETL is dedicated to building blockchain-based solutions for Financial Markets, Asset Management and Payments. SETL’s core technology is proprietary, market leading and designed specifically for high performance, low latency regulated applications. 
